1-Make something people want.
2-A great team and a great market are both critically important—you have to have both.  The debate about which is more important is silly.
3-Write code, talk to users, and build the company (hire the best people you can find, get the culture right, fundraise, close sales, etc.)  Most other things that founders do are a waste of time.
4-Set a clear, easy-to-understand vision for your company, and make it be a mission people believe in.
5-Stay focused and don’t try to do too many things at once.  Care about execution quality.
6-You have to have an almost crazy level of dedication to your company to succeed.
7-In general, don’t start a startup you’re not willing to work on for ten years.
8-Be relentlessly resourceful.
9-In the current pivot-happy world, good ideas are underweight.  It’s worth the time to think through a good one.
10-Growth solves (nearly) all problems.
11-While growth is critical and you should focus on it, occasionally consider where you’re going—you need both growth and to be growing towards something valuable.
12-Obsess about the quality of the product.
13-Overcommunicate with your team.  For some reason most founders are really bad at this one.  Transparency is your friend.
14-Move fast.  Speed is one of your main advantages over large companies.
15-Hire slow; fire fast.  Hiring is the most important thing you do; spend at least a third of your time on it.
16-Occasionally think about why the 20th person will join your company.
17-Hire smart and effective people that are committed to what you’re doing.  The last five words there are important.
18-Hire friends and friends of friends.  Go after these people like crazy to get them to join.  Some other candidate sources are ok, but I always got bad results from technical recruiters.
19-Generally, value aptitude over experience.
20-Hire people that you could describe as animals.
21-Eliminate distractions.
22-Don’t die.
23-Be frugal.
24-You’ll often hear conflicting advice about everything but “build a great product”.  This means you can go either way on much of the rest of it and it doesn’t really matter.
25-You make what you measure.
26-Startups are very hard no matter what you do; you may as well go after a big opportunity.
27-Momentum is critical.  Don’t lose it.
28-Keep salaries low and equity high.
29-Keep the organization as flat as you can.
30-When working on a deal—raising money, trying to get a partnership, etc.—it’s important to create a competitive situation.
31-Don’t forget to make money.
32-Journalists like hearing directly from founders.  If you hire PR people, resist their desire to control all the contact.
33-It’s standard for founders to keep board control in the first round.
34-Listen to everyone.  Then make your own decision.
35-Remember that you are more likely to die because you execute badly than get crushed by a competitor.
36-Get lucky.
37-Have a direct relationship with your customers.
38-Be formidable—do not be easy to push around.
39-Don’t let your company be run by a sales guy.  But do learn how to sell your product.
40-Have a culture that rewards output.
41-Don’t hire professional managers too early.
42-Simple is good.  Be suspicious of complexity.
43-Get on planes in marginal situations.  In-person is still better than tele-anything.
44-Most things are not as risky as they seem.
45-Be suspect of anyone who says the word process too often.
46-Raise a bit more money than you think you need.
47-Ignore the fact that “the press loves [you]”.
48-Have great customer service.
49-You can create value with breakthrough innovation, incremental refinement, or complex coordination.  Great companies often do two of these.  The very best companies do all three.
50-The role of the board is advice and consent.  If the CEO does not lay out a clear strategy and tries to get the board to set one, it will usually end in disaster.
51-Board observers are usually a headache.
52-If you pivot, do it fully and with conviction.  The worst thing is to try to do a bit of the old and the new—it’s hard to kill your babies.
53-It’s better to make a decision and be wrong than to equivocate.
54-Just make a decision and get back to work.  Product/market fit is what matters.  You can—and will—make a lot of mistakes.
